  The term gerrymandering entered the modern political lexicon when a dragon-like cartoon drawn by cartoonist Elkanah Tisdale was published in the Boston Gazette in 1812. The political cartoon targeted then-Massachusetts governor Elbridge Gerry, who approved new congressional districts drawn by the Democratic-Republican dominated state legislature. These oddly-shaped districts were drawn to give Democratic-Republicans a clear electoral advantage, and one of them that snaked around Essex County was so odd that the aforementioned political cartoon was drawn to mock it. The drawing was called a "Gerry-Mander", and it was upon the publication of this cartoon that the term gerrymandering was born. 
  This issue once again reached prominence during the Civil Rights Movement. Redistricting intended to suppress the voices of minorities, specifically black people, was rampant in the era between Reconstruction and the Voting Rights Act. The Supreme Court case Gomillion v. Lightfoot was the first step in illegalizing this process. An Alabama law that redefined the Tuskegee city boundaries was the subject of this case, as the boundaries were drawn in such a way that all black votes would be excluded and no white votes would be. The Supreme Court struck down this law, as it violated the Fifteenth Amendment. Eventually, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 made racial gerrymandering illegal.
  Today, gerrymandering is also a large issue in politics. After the 2008 elections, in which Democrats gained control over both houses of Congress and the presidency, Republican strategists developed the Redistricting Majority Project (REDMAP), in which the GOP poured money and other support into state legislature races in order to gain majorities in these houses. As the census was in 2010, these Republican-dominated state legislatures would redistrict their state's House districts in their favor. This method proved extremely effective, leading to much gerrymandering in 2010. In many cases, the redistricting operated on a racial and partisan bias, and in states such as North Carolina, Florida, and Michigan, these districts were struck down. In Wisconsin, Democrats challenged the districts there for the extent of the partisan redistricting there. This case, Gill v. Whitford, went to the Supreme Court, which sent it back to lower courts so the plaintiffs could reevaluate their standard. Democrat partisan gerrymandering also occurred in states such as Maryland, Delaware, and California. As the 2020 census approaches, the future role of gerrymandering in the American political system is uncertain.
Sources Used:    
"Elbridge Gerry." Encyclopedia  Brittanica, 17 May 2017, www.britannica.com.biography/Elbridge-Gerry. 
 "Gomillion v. Lightfoot." Oyez, www.oyez.org/cases/1960/32.  
 "Gill v. Whitford." Oyez, www.oyez.org/cases/2017/16-1161. 
"Gerrymandering, a Tradition as Old as the Republic, Faces a Reckoning." Wall Street Journal, https://www.wsj.com/articles/gerrymandering-a-tradition-as-old-as-the-republic-faces-a-reckoning-1506698255
